foreign
what I'd like to talk about today is a
growth versus efficiency and and how to
weatherproof your startup for for
tougher times
um but a really really quick intro about
what we're doing at 0.9 we're in an
early stage Venture Capital firm we've
been around for about 12 years we focus
on SAS Investments at the very earliest
status and we invest in startups from
pretty much all over the globe mostly in
Europe but also in the U.S Canada and
other countries so we're a very
geo-agnostic and if you haven't heard
about 0.9 yet you've probably heard
about some of the companies that we've
been an early investor in such as
algolia chart module incident IO Loom
type from zendesk and and many others
so the topic that we like that I'd like
to talk about today is growth versus
efficiency
um in these tougher times and I'm I'm
sure you had you heard a lot of talk
about this a rough or already a lot of
uh we see a advice on on Twitter and
elsewhere I hope you're not sick and
tired of uh talking about this yet
um but I'll try to avoid the very
generic advice like everybody needs five
years of Runway because I think it's
great if you can have five years of
Runway if you can be default alive but
it just doesn't work for every company
and so I'll try to
take a closer look at the balance
between growth and efficiency
and we'll dig into that
so
a few months ago I wrote a blog post
titled hyper growth is great but don't
die while trying I'd like to start by
quickly walking you through the key
concepts of that blog post I try to do
it as fast as possible because you can
look that up online and after that I'll
talk a bit about what investors are
looking for in 2022 based on some
service that we did and some other
benchmarks then I'll dig into some
metrics that you can use to measure
growth and efficiency and then there
will also be some time for for Q a
all right let's go
[Music]
um a question for you all who of you has
been in a situation where things were
going well you were growing fast
you were crushing it you were getting
calls from Tiger you'll be seized
probably told you that you should burn
money faster
and then just a few months later things
look drastically different drastically
worse
um your growth rate has tanked your
Runway got very short you started to get
nervous about the the next financing
round does that sound familiar to
everybody to somebody here put your
hands up oh
awesome it's awesome to see some honest
people in the room
um let's try to dig in a bit deeper here
to sort of unpack how that um how that
can happen
try to avoid that next time
so how come companies can go from boom
to bust sometimes in a matter of months
that's the that's the question
so if you suddenly find yourself in a
much worse situation it's probably
because two things happened number one
your growth rate went down and number
two you kept spending cash according to
your original plan so this is what
typically happens at least one of the
reasons that can lead to like
basically hitting the fan
and if we try to understand this formula
a little bit better
slow growth plus higher spend
um leads to higher burn shorter Runway
you have less ARR less investor interest
so you have to raise your next round
earlier and you have to do it with a
lower level of ARR you have to do it
with with less growth so that's a pretty
bad formula and in a red hot VC market
like the one that we had until last year
and you can probably get away with this
but in a much much tougher market like
the one that we entered this year this
is a formula for disaster in the best
case you'll Race at a much lower
valuation than you expected and in the
worst case you might literally go bust
so let's try to dig in a bit deeper into
the metrics of an
imaginary SAS company to get a better
understanding for how this formula can
can work out
um and again I'll run through this
pretty quickly because you can also look
this up online if you want to look at
all the all the numbers
so what you can see here on the screen
is the ARR projection of Acme
um of course it's called Acme and Acme
is at four million dollars in AR the
company has raised 12 million dollars
wants to use that to Triple ER to 12
million in 12 months and then grow to
another and grow another 7 million to 19
to 19 million in AR in another six
months you can see the ER projection
here and here you can see the projection
for incoming cash the green bars
outgoing cash the the red bars and then
the the red line indicates the net burn
and then here on the top right you can
see what that means for the bank balance
and according to Acme's planning they
are in a pretty comfortable situation
have an ambitious plan but 18 months of
Runway so that's looking pretty good
now let's fast forward
um six months and see how akma has been
doing
so the company has grown in those six
months from four million in ER to 6.2
million which is pretty awesome it's not
quite as fast as expected but definitely
I'm pretty respectable growth you can
see that there is a tiny little
difference between the plan numbers and
the and the actuals but it's not a big
difference
um here is are the updated Cash Cash
charts and the updated bank balance so
it all looks pretty good
um but nevertheless the the founders the
management team of Acme is smart so they
take a closer look and decide that they
should do a fork a reforecast based on
the slightly lower growth so
um the company has had projected to grow
9.6 months over months which corresponds
with a 3X gross ambition that I
mentioned earlier but they actually grew
only seven percent months over months so
they do a new forecast based on that you
can see the dotted line here
um and you can see here what it means to
the cash flow projections and ultimately
to the bank balance and
what you can see here is that if the
company keeps spending according to the
original plan
um but it keeps Revenue keeps growing
Revenue as per the trend of the last six
months it'll run out of money in seven
months so it's pretty dramatic
what
the company started with 18 months of
Runway six months later Artemis has only
seven months of Runway left what
happened there so there is a very simple
answer to this and it's the company was
burning too much it didn't have enough
buffer that's all very true but
nevertheless let's dig it a bit deeper
to see what maybe they the founders
could have done to detect that even
earlier
one of the issues and it's
to uh to even mention it but it's there
are definitely
um I've definitely seen people get this
wrong is that if you look at the total
AR figures and compare the actuals to
the plan the the difference is not that
that visible you can see here
um on on these charts here if you look
at the difference between the dark
darker green and lighter green bars
which show like the the targets and the
actuals there is a small difference but
it definitely doesn't look dramatic but
if you then plot a chart for next new AR
which is like the net new that you keep
adding every month and it's a much much
more visible difference it's it's the
same underlying numbers but depending on
which of these metrics you're looking at
it becomes much easier to spot that
difference
and another way of looking at it is is
this again it's the same numbers the
numbers from the charts on the previous
slides and here it shows the goal
achievement percentage and if you look
at ARR all of these goal achievement
percentages are 90 95 100 so you could
easily fool yourself into thinking that
you're hitting your plan and everything
is in the green zone but if you look at
the net new AR goal achievement
percentage you can actually see that
you're at much lower value is 60 70 80
and so with that simple trick of making
sure that you always keep in very close
eye on net new er you might be able to
detect or you will be able to detect uh
significant deviations from that plan
much earlier
now I hope you are all focused on the
right metrics and adjust to changes
quickly
um but let's also talk about uh the the
case when things aren't going that well
so when you're kind of a bit a bit too
close to to that Iceberg
um and and and try to navigate a a
tougher situation so as I said in the
very beginning I think there is no one
size fits if it's all answer
um if you're planning to be default
alive which is a which is a great goal
it might depending on your situation
lead you to under invest in in product
and r d sales and marketing so the
consequence of that might be that you
um that you sort of you don't fail
quickly but you also don't don't succeed
so
um it's it's really important to look at
the at the very specifics to determine
what you could do to increase your
Runway if you want to increase your
Runway or if you think you have to
increase the runway
um I think there is a great concept
which was recently
popularized or coined by David Sachs the
the founder of Yammer and other
companies and investor at craft Ventures
and he calls it default investable and
then what that means is that you should
always be in a situation where you are
not necessarily default alive and you
you probably need another round of
funding but you have high conviction
that by the time you are at the end of
your Runway you are in a good position
to be raising so you think about like
where am I going to be in nine months
for example if you have let's say 12
months of Runway and you think about
like what is my most likely
situation going to be and is that
aligned with what investors are looking
for in this current market
um so let's talk about what makes a
company investable and this is actually
a question that we've been looking into
for for a number of years and then we
always try to capture a lot of data and
investor sentiment and all bring this on
our SAS funding napkin which actually
exists in physical form you might find
some of them lying around here at this
conference
um investors look at a lot of different
things various kind of metrics growth
logo churn Revenue churn net expansion
efficiency metrics and many other things
and they obviously also look at a lot of
more qualitative factors like your team
your product the competitive situation
um and again like we try to capture all
these things on on that napkin
investors
always had and probably will always will
have very high growth expectations
um what you can see here are some
numbers from Bessemer Venture Partners
very large data set of a cloud portfolio
companies
um this is data probably going back at
least 10 years and what you can see here
is that the the average company
Investments Cloud portfolio has been
growing about 3x between 1 and 10
million ER and still round about two
eggs or even more than 2x above 10
million ER so that's a pretty pretty
high bar I would say and these numbers
are not necessarily a snapshot of the
current market it's these are benchmarks
collected over over many years
um but it actually hasn't changed that
much at least based on everything we
were able to find out by talking to a
lot of investors and having a hundred or
so or maybe 80 investors participate in
our SAS funding survey earlier this year
the takeaway for us was that at the
series a to get investors excited you
you still need to grow two to three x
um probably still the same at the series
B maybe there are some exceptions
um but generally I would say that the
growth expectations they they remain
very very high
um in that survey that I've mentioned we
also asked investors specifically what
matters in 2022 and ask them to tell us
what matters more what matters less
where do they see no differences
um across a couple of different
categories or aspects and as you can see
here only 11 of the investors that
participated in that survey said that
Revenue growth is less important in 2022
26 even said that it's more important in
2022 and and the rest of them said that
it doesn't there is really no difference
to to a previous years
what's new though is that there is a
very very strong new focus on efficiency
um in in the last years and especially
in 2020 and 2021 there's been so much
money in the market driven by like
macroeconomic factors and probably a lot
of things that you already know and
others have already talked about
um that investors were quite happy to
fund growth at pretty much any cost
um this has definitely changed and it's
also visible in in that survey that we
did here and more than 80 of the
investors from that survey said that
efficiency Capital efficiency is more
important in 2022 than in previous years
um the rest said no difference and there
was nobody who said that it's less
important
so you might be looking at this and
thinking wait investors want the same or
even more growth with less capital
and if you think that somehow sounds a
bit like a Dilbert comic it's because
there actually is a digital comic saying
where the guy says we have to learn to
do more with less
um
it's probably the reality of a financing
landscape where they are we are the cost
of capital have increased investors can
be more more picky and trying to achieve
more with less is probably
um what what many Founders have to
achieve in in these days
when it comes to measuring efficiency in
sauce There are two metrics that I think
are particularly important
excuse me
um one is the burn multiple
um which you might have heard about in
which I'll talk about a bit and the
other is the baby payback
period
the burn multiple basically tells you
how much Capital do I burn how much do I
have to raise in order to add one dollar
of net uarr it's a very simple formula
that helps you measure the capital
efficiency of the entire company in a
very holistic way
as a rule of thumb for earlier stage
companies
um below 25 million err
um it's from not not fair to still call
them only like let's say early and
mid-stage Company at less than 25
million err uh one to 1.5 is generally
considered to be good or very good and
and lower than one is is great and I'm
going to show some more detailed
benchmarks on that in a second
it's important to keep in mind that in
the very early days it's total it's
totally normal for that multiple to be
higher because in the beginning you of
course have to invest in team building r
d you have a lot of upfront costs and
you're not bringing in so much revenue
so the denominator in that formula is
obviously very small in the beginning so
it's it's very natural that companies
have a higher burn multiple
um early on and it's also okay at least
in my view for the brown multiple to be
higher at certain times like when you've
just raised a lot of money and you have
a lot of Runway and you invest and
obviously it means that you have to
um like have invest ahead of time and
ahead of Revenue coming in so for there
are periods in in the life of a company
where your burn multiple will probably
go up but it's important that you have
to have it under control because by the
time you have to raise again this is one
of the things that investors will look
at very carefully because if you ask
somebody to invest 20 30 40 50 million
into your company they will try to
understand what is it that this or that
the company will achieve with that money
just to share a couple of benchmarks
here
um here this data set comes from
um Andrews and Horowitz and you can see
the typical numbers that they can see
here in their portfolio for different
Revenue a bands and as you can see the
the median for them in the 0 to 10
million err range is 1.6 and then it
goes down as you as you get bigger
um but you can also see that there is
quite a big variance between the top
quartile meaning the most efficient
companies in their portfolio and the in
the median and the bottom quartile
there are some interesting uh benchmarks
from scale Venture Partners who broke
this down in a more granular way so you
can see what a typical burn multiple
looks like for a company below a million
and er are one to two point five and and
so on and again like what's what's very
clear and it's also quite logical is
that you you start off with a pretty
high burn multiple and and then you have
to make sure that you that it goes down
over time
you might be wondering why does it
actually matter like why do these
benchmarks from other companies like why
does it matter like why is it actually
Irrelevant for for me and for my
situation and to maybe answer that
question I I did a simple calculation
where I showed like the evolution of the
cap table for two companies imaginary
companies obviously based on a couple of
assumptions and it's probably a bit too
small to for you to read I can share the
slides later on if anybody is interested
in the the takeaway here is that if
there are two companies growing from
zero to about 100 million in ER one of
them has a burn multiple of four the
other one has a broad mile multiple
initially starting at about three and
then decreasing to about 0.75 then just
because you have to raise so much more
Capital if you're inefficient the
founders end up with approximately two
times the equity in the company compared
to the less efficient company and this
is just based on like the fact that you
have to raise more Capital it doesn't
even factor in the the fact that if you
are less Capital efficient you probably
won't get that high evaluation and maybe
you're not even able to to raise at all
so
um it's uh this might I don't know maybe
explain more from a first principles
kind of thinking way to why why this
matters it's not just like because
others in the market and do this there
is there is a fundamental reason why
Capital efficiency is is important
now moving on to CAC payback period
which is the the other
um equally important Capital efficiency
metric that I mentioned and would like
to explain a little bit more
what the payback period tells you
very simply is how long does it take to
earn back my sales and marketing
spending if I invest a dollar in sales
and marketing how long does it take
until that has flown back in gross
margin to my bank account
it measures sales and marketing
efficiency specifically so it doesn't
replace the burn multiple which takes
into account the entire spending of the
company it's much more focused on the
efficiency of your sales and marketing
um operation
um as a rule of thumb if you're selling
to Enterprises uh you have a long
customer lifetime you might have a net
dollar retention rate or ndr of 100 or
maybe even more 15 to 18 months of
payback is probably okay probably quite
good
um you might even want to accept more
than that depending on your funding and
depending on like how big your ndr is
there are companies with 120 130 maybe
even 140 percent in net dollar retention
and if you're in that lucky situation
then
um it makes sense to spend a lot on on
each and every customer
if you're targeting smbs you will likely
have higher churn and in these cases you
should aim for something closer to 12
months or less but it obviously it
depends so these are just some uh some
rules of thumb
now when you take a closer look at what
cut payback actually means it starts to
become a bit complicated because there
are various definitions in various ways
to look at at custom acquisition costs I
think it's important that when you talk
about with your team or with your
investors or new investors you make sure
that
um everybody talks about the same thing
when they use that term because there
are various ways of calculating that
that metric and they are not right or
wrong they just mean different things
for example you can look at it in a
blended way which takes into account all
of your customers or you can look at
paid only where you exclude the
customers that you get from organic
sources or inbound word of mouth and so
on
um I generally think that the paid only
way of looking at it is more useful
because it
tells you like what you really want to
know usually which is like if I add
another dollar or another million of
dollars how many customers will I get so
that's usually
um the more interesting and relevant
question although it can become tricky
um when the attribution isn't so clear
so that's a well that's a probably a
topic for another day
um another way how you can look at in
payback in different ways is that you
can include your entire sales and
marketing spend and if you're at a
certain scale this is what you should do
but if you're early stage and you do a
lot of marketing experiments and maybe
80 of your AES are not get ramped then
you may want to exclude some of these
one-time costs or temporary costs or
experimental things and try to figure
out what's the calc at scale or in a
steady state I think that's pretty a
pretty useful way of looking at it if
you think about the future it it's also
a bit risky because you make some
assumptions which may or may not be true
um and and lastly another another two
ways how you can look at in
different ways is that you can take the
accounting lens which tells you
something about the profitability of
your custom acquisition again more at
scale but you can also take the cash
based View and that might be very
different and it might be more relevant
if you have limited Runway and you're
wondering what kind of sales and
marketing Investments can I actually
afford so when you look at it in cash
terms you have to think about I hire
this AE and I might have recruiting
costs and then it might take three
months for him or her to be around and
then it might take another couple of
months to be
for them to bring in significant revenue
and then you have to think about like
how long does it take to collect that
Revenue which depends on your billing
cycles and all these things so the cash
based you might be quite different from
the accounting based one
um now the last thing I want to talk
about before we hopefully still have a
little bit of time for for questions is
this this two times two Matrix if you
put cat payback period and burn multiple
on this two times two Matrix I think you
can draw some interesting conclusions
especially if you are in a situation
where you need more Runway and you have
to think about where do I cut
um if you are in this top left part of
the of the chart you have a good burn
multiple but poor sales efficiency so
obviously I guess if you're in that
situation and you need to find some
places to cut you you should consider
cutting your sales and marketing spend
because sales and marketing doesn't seem
to be very efficient
um and actually even if you have enough
Runway
um I would consider cutting back on your
SN S M spend in this situation or at
least not adding to it because if the
sales and marketing and engine isn't
really working well it probably doesn't
make sense to put in more gas into that
tank until you manage to make it more
efficient
if you're in the opposite corner it's
the opposite
um you have a great sales efficiency but
a higher burn multiple so if you're in
that situation and you need more Runway
it's probably a big mistake to cut your
sales and marketing costs because the
payback is so quick that it might
actually decrease your Runway if you if
you don't spend on sales and marketing
so if you're in on on that part of the
chart and you have little Runway and you
want to increase that you should try to
find ways to reduce costs in other areas
that r d and DNA most likely
now if you're in that part of the in
that left and bottom quadrant on in that
Matrix it means you have a high burn
multiple lower sales efficiency not a
great spot to be to be in to be honest
it can be okay temporarily to be in that
in that situation when you've just raced
around and you just have a lot of
upfront costs and front loaded costs um
but as I've mentioned before this can't
be a permanent situation and if you are
getting towards the end of your Runway
and you have to raise again you'll you
have to try to move towards the the
green areas
in that Matrix in order to be a a better
or more easily fundable company
um if you're in the top right corner
congratulations
so really quickly the the takeaways
you can have an ambitious upside case
but I think you have to be really
careful when it comes to planning your
your budget and your Runway if you
project exponential Revenue growth and
spending money based on that that's
super risky as I showed in the very
beginning if the growth just happens to
be a little bit slower than you expected
because of this compounding effect of
exponential growth there might be a
pretty big gap pretty pretty quickly
what you should do is keep a close eye
on net new er be super fast to adapt and
consider having a burn budget I think
that's a term that I've learned from
Jason Jason lemkin which I like a lot
and what it means is that you set a a
certain dollar amount that you and your
team can burn in for each given month
and you basically you just you just
don't know you just don't exceed that so
instead of It kind of make sure that you
don't spend ahead of Revenue but you
only increase your spending when Revenue
actually comes in and it kind of ensures
that that you live long enough
uh takeaway number three here
if you have enough cash it's okay to
have a higher Bond multiple
um for a few quarters
but you have to watch your steady state
customer acquisition costs
um if they aren't good don't Pile in
more cash first like build or fix the
engine before you add more gas into it
and then make sure that you are
investable Again by the time you have to
raise again so remember this default
investable concept from David sax
um
number four depending on your burn
multiple and your sales efficiency you
may want to move budget from GNA and r d
to sales and marketing all the other way
around or reduce costs across the board
if you need more Runway it really
depends on on where you are
and the the final takeaway here is that
if Runway is tight cash really is King
so you have to think about how long does
it take for a new AE that you might
consider to hire to pay back his or her
costs in cash in the bank and it might
be very different from what you have in
your spreadsheet
thank you very much for listening and I
think we still have 10 minutes or so for
Q a
sure this is this is all great for a
post product Market fit company like you
know it was in like series a series B
and trying to grow what will be your
recommendation for a pre-product market
fit more like in in seed stage
especially in this market compared to
like you know last year yeah I think for
pre-product Market fit companies I would
say it's always been true that you
should have a pretty small team because
it's unpredictable how long it's going
to take to get to product Market fit and
adding more people doesn't necessarily
get you there faster right
um You probably want to build the most
effective most efficient engineering
team which I know maybe it's five to ten
people but definitely not 20 or 30
because you just need time it might take
you a year or three years to get the
product Market fit and you just want to
make sure that you survive long enough
and and I would I would have said this a
year ago and two years ago but now it's
probably probably even more more
important because it might be even
harder to raise more money in the
current environment if you don't have
pretty strong signs of product Market
fit and how much runway would you
recommend for a for a pre-product market
fit company to aim for
I guess it depends on the type of
product and the r d that is required
right there maybe some uh like some
ideas where you have an MVP in in three
months and then maybe 12 months is fine
but if it's a technically more
challenging project then it might take
two years just to build a prototype
you'll need much more
um so
but I would say the more the better
right because getting from nothing to
product Market fit in my experience it's
it's really unpredictable because you're
it's kind of like inventing something
and this is by definition something new
otherwise it wouldn't be an invention so
I I think the more time you can you can
get give yourself the better make sense
thank you
all right
um I don't know if there are any other
questions
um if not here are a couple of bonus
tips to increase Runway if things are
really tight
um I'm not going to read all of them to
you but I think you'll find the slides
I'm online or you'll maybe find it on
YouTube or you can email me at
Christoph
0.9.com you'll also find me on on
Twitter or LinkedIn so
um if you'd like to dig in deeper into
any of this or would like to get the
slides just just let me know
um thanks again for coming here and for
your intention and I hope you enjoy the
rest of the conference
[Applause]
[Music]